[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
And you know, we call the
program "Beyond Belief"
because we deal with
subject matter that
is truly beyond belief.
And our special guest
is Freddy Silva.
Freddy is an expert in
ancient civilizations
and has studied these for years.
But how did you
start, Mr. Silva?
>>FREDDY SILVA:
Boredom and curiosity.
Terrible combination, George.
>>NOORY: Boredom and curiosity.
>>SILVA: Gets you into all kinds
of interesting little places
under big rocks.
And then you start
asking questions
and you go, wait
a minute, that's
not what I was told
when I was at school.
And that's not what I
believe when academia
writes about ancient temples.
Something's not
quite right here.
And that's how it really began.
It was just--
>>NOORY: So you went out
looking for your own answers.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Just pure curiosity, and then
reading interesting books that
came your way, and then
realizing, wait a minute.
There's a different story
that's going on here.
These buildings were much older
than we've been led to believe.
The people that put them here
were a bit different from us.
So who were they?
Where did they come from?
What did they want with us?
And from then on,
20 years later,
I'm still talking about it.
>>NOORY: How could science get
some of these things wrong?
And what's the significance
of being wrong?
>>SILVA: Ah!
Well, it really goes back
to about the Victorian era,
that lovely time when church and
state were kind of going at it.
And the Church pretty
much was saying, well--
and they actually have
the conference on this,
if you can possibly
believe this.
It is beyond belief, by the way.
And they were saying, well,
on which day in August 4004 BC
was the earth created?
So of course archaeologists,
which were just starting out
at that era, began
to dig up things
like dinosaur bones, which
of course were a bit older
than 6,000 years.
And that's where the
problems really began.
They had to try and
force fit anything
that they found within
a time scale that
went from the creation
of the earth in 4000 BC
to massive temples within 2000
BC and sudden civilization
around 1000 BC.
So that's why they
were so hamstrung.
And it's a very
conservative area of work,
so they had to slowly
backpedal from that,
and we're still kind of
working through that.
So when you saying a temple
is 3000 BC, like that's
the usual date given to
Stonehenge, for example,
the DNA analysis of some of
the postholes at Stonehenge
are actually dating to 8000 BC.
Whoops.
So yes.
>>NOORY: Why a huge disparity?
>>SILVA: Because they're
trying to figure out
how you can basically
assimilate this new idea,
this new story into
the accepted paradigm.
It doesn't fit.
So now there's a lot
of independent people--
such as myself, I hope--
who are trying to figure
out that yes, there
was another civilization here a
long time ago before the slate
was wiped clean.
And it's in the other
stories all around the world.
The more you
travel, the more you
talk to people and
their oral histories,
the more they told
you, oh, there
was people here before us and
they'll die during the flood--
not all of them.
But they left behind enough
of what we see today.
And that's what I
find fascinating,
is that we're now
building on the--
literally on the
shoulders of giants,
because they were
giants as well.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
Tell me a little
bit about the flood,
the historical worldwide flood.
>>SILVA: The biggie.
>>NOORY: And the significance
of that with some of the things
that have been left behind.
>>SILVA: What happened was, is
that then about 11,000 years
ago, we were actually hit
with the disintegrating
fragments of a large comet.
It happens very periodically,
and we have the evidence now
to prove where the
fragments were.
And they seem to have hit pretty
much in areas of large oceans.
What happened was
that the trajectory
of the actual fragments hit
the earth at such a point
off the continental shelf
that it created plumes
of water 5 kilometers high.
>>NOORY: Whoa!
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And I thought that this was
just the people's stories
and exaggerations over
time, because there
is a story in Tibet where
they actually say, oh, yes.
The waters from the flood
came right into the Himalayas.
That's pretty high up.
Well, I got hold of a
physicist, and they actually
have been doing work at
Los Alamos doing trajectory
of objects in water.
God knows why.
And they said,
actually, no, when
you have the trajectory
at a certain velocity,
let's say it's a mile-long
piece of rock that comes out
of space, if it hits just
off the continental shelf
in a deep trench
area, for example,
and the impact would be such
that it will create a plume
about 5 kilometers high.
That leaves a void.
When that plume comes
back down into the ocean,
it creates a shock wave.
So if you're in the
middle of the ocean--
>>NOORY: Like a tsunami?
>>SILVA: Well, before the
tsunami, there's a big ripple.
So there's people in the
ocean at the time which
have discovered in the
stories of New Zealand,
for example, there were
people in the ocean
back then that said,
where did that come from?
And they knew there
was a big wave coming.
So when the water finally
hits the landmass,
it creates a tsunami
which is equal in height
to the original plume,
which is 5 kilometers high.
I've just finished reading--
>>NOORY: That's like
a mile high, right?
>>SILVA: It's 3 miles.
>>NOORY: 3 miles high.
>>SILVA: 3 miles high.
>>NOORY: Could you imagine--
you're on shore and you
see a 3-mile-high wave
coming your way?
>>SILVA: Hide the
pancakes, dear.
>>NOORY: How far inland
would something like that go?
>>SILVA: It would be swept right
into the interior of Australia.
It would run into the Himalayas.
We have the eyewitness accounts
of Native American peoples
saying that we're in the
Rockies and the waves
are still coming through the
Rockies right into Oklahoma.
So I mean, I've read 140--
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
>>SILVA: --of these
stories and I'm
literally just
pieced them together
in a chapter in my new book.
And if you can survive
reading that chapter,
you're doing pretty well.
It's like a weight-reduction
program when you actually
see it through the eyes of
people who were actually there
and survived.
They said, yeah.
They looked like a black
cloud on the horizon.
It was only until
the last moment
we realized it
wasn't a black cloud,
it was black-laden
water with debris.
>>NOORY: If that were to hit
us today, our US cities, what
would happen to those cities?
>>SILVA: This show would
come to a very quick end.
It would wipe everything out.
>>NOORY: Buildings
would go, everything.
>>SILVA: Everything.
And this is where
you start getting
the stories of the
recovery period, which
is what I find fascinating.
The people that suddenly
come onshore in the middle
of nowhere, out of nowhere,
in groups of seven.
They were supposed to be
half human, half divine,
a little taller than we are,
usually about 7, 8 feet.
White-skinned, which is a
bit weird in South America
because they don't
look like that.
They had tunics that went all
the way down to the ground.
And they said that these
people were half human, half
divine, they were
survivors of the cataclysm,
and they had the
knowledge of the gods.
And they went around
the world rebuilding.
And I say this from
the Egyptian text.
The idea was to rebuild the
former world of the gods.
And they had to find
specific locations
on the face of the earth,
which they already knew
quite well, to which
they were going to build
the future historic temples.
This is actually written in
the temple of Edfu in Egypt.
There was a mandate
by a certain group
of people who knew exactly
about how the earth works,
how the laws of
physics work, and they
were going to rebuild it and
try a structure of monuments
across the face of the earth
for all kinds of reasons,
into which they
would then create
a whole new civilization.
And at that moment in
the history of humanity,
suddenly we discover
agriculture, mathematics,
astronomy--
all the civilizing things
that make us who we are today,
in the blink of an eye.
>>NOORY: A huge change.
Yeah.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
All of a sudden.
Isn't that weird, how
suddenly we all had
this massive shamanic moment?
Or was it true what the people
say and the survivors said?
That we were told this by a
group of seven shining beings
and one person that led them.
And this happens in Sumeria--
or Mesopotamia-- Peru, in
North America, in New Zealand,
in Easter Island.
It's all around the world.
So they couldn't have
been making this stuff up
because apparently they had no
contact with each other back
then.
>>NOORY: Something happened.
In your films, you
talk about some
of these ancient sites and
some of the amazing things
that go with it.
>>SILVA: Ah.
>> When we dissect the work
of the temple builders,
we begin to see how their
structures are a kind
of universal reference library.
They encode the mathematics
of planetary movements,
the dimensions of the earth,
strategic angles manipulating
energy, even sacred geometry.
Some temples enhance
the effects of sound.
Others encode their
own latitudinal
and longitudinal
red coordinates.
Surely if these were erected
to simply honor the gods,
as orthodox history
tells us, then why
was such information
and precision necessary?
And why did they
choose to encode
such knowledge using some of
the hardest rocks on Earth?
Did they wish to
immortalize their genius?
Or was there another purpose?
>>NOORY: Freddy, is
there an answer to that?
What was the message behind
this, behind the structures?
What was happening then?
>>SILVA: They basically
were trying to figure out--
this is what I find
fascinating about everything.
They had a long-range
plan in mind.
They were very concerned about
the development of humanity.
Now, when you think
about it, you and I
have a life span of about
80 years if we're lucky.
They were projecting things
into 30,000-year increments,
sometimes as much as
140,000-year increments.
What was their obsession?
Why were they so obsessed
with trying to figure out
the longevity of things?
And I think they realized--
and this is more
than idle conjecture,
because I hear about it
from indigenous people
around the world--
that they basically
recognized humanity
as a continuation, a story
that keeps going and going
and going, despite the
cataclysms that befall us,
despite presidential elections
and all the other stuff
we have to put up with.
They recognized that
we are a continuum,
and that continuum is to
do with the development
of the human soul and
people as a species.
And the idea was to build
these monuments that
would last into our lifetime.
Because I think that they
could see far enough--
and again, this is
mentioned again and again,
that the ancestors could
see far without traveling.
They were almost psychic.
And they recognized
that we would
come to a point in
our civilization
today where we'd hit a dead end.
We wouldn't know where to go.
We'd get confused.
And they built these
places as a kind of what
I call self-help centers.
Because when you
go to these sites,
where there's a pyramid or a
Stonehenge or a stone circle,
they pretty much
behave in the same way.
There's energy there,
which is measurable.
There are mathematical
encodings which are present,
which extract--
from which you can extract
the movements and measurements
of the planets.
You know, why is that important?
The geometry of the
heavens, the way
that the planets relate to
each other, anything that forms
a foundation of civilization.
This is all hard-wired into
the stones and the dimensions
of the temple.
So they reckoned that
no matter what happens,
you know, humans might come and
go, but the temples will stay.
And if you're clever enough
and you're curious enough,
and you look at
these things and you
begin to extract
the information,
that's how civilization evolves.
So it was a long-range project
that they had in mind, right
from the start.
>>NOORY: Freddy, did they
put these structures where
they are for specific reasons?
>>SILVA: Oh, very much so.
There's been plenty
of work that's
been done in the last 20 years,
now that we have the technology
to back this up.
Because in the old
days, they used to say,
well, I can feel
the energy, man.
And people used to laugh
at you and think you're
just some kind of
a new-age nutso.
Well, now we can
measure the energy.
And it's actually been found
that, without exception, all
the ancient temples
are where they
are because the
laws of physics are
a little bit different
at these sites.
Gravity behaves a
little bit differently.
Electromagnetism is
drawn to these sites.
And when you hard-wire
them and literally
make sure that this
energy stays where
it is, which is the
purpose of the temple,
then anyone that comes within
the range of that temple
is influenced by what's there.
>>NOORY: How did they
know how to do this?
>>SILVA: That's the
big question, isn't it?
Did they feel it first?
Were they so intuitive that
they could actually figure out
that if you go 15 feet down the
road, you can actually connect
with a finer level of reality?
I think they were.
>>NOORY: Or were they told this?
>>SILVA: Or were they told?
Exactly.
>>NOORY: You will
build here because--
>>SILVA: That's
the big question.
Was it from-- did it
come from somewhere else?
Were we given the information
from somewhere else?
There's usually the
association with Orion a lot
in the stories of
these divine people.
There's always this long thread
that connects into Orion.
Whether it's a metaphor
or whether they physically
came from there, that's
a matter of opinion.
But there's always
this connection
that there's an other-worldly
element to these people.
They certainly were connected
to another level of reality,
whether they inherited it
or whether someone gave it
to them.
The Native Americans
would probably
agree with the first part, which
they will say, yes, we keep
communicating with star people.
And these star people
often would give us
the information that we'd
then apply in our daily lives.
So I think that the
story goes both ways.
I think we inherited it,
but we also discovered it
from people who actually
had the full knowledge
to understand that,
yes, if you step
15 feet away from
this area, that bit
there, if you stand
there, it's like you're
being inside the big tube.
And it is.
I mean, I've had this
experience as well all the time,
to the point where I
can now feel energy.
I can now see it.
From 20 years of doing this,
it becomes second nature.
And I can just move
15 feet away somewhere
and I go, well,
that's interesting.
>>NOORY: Dig here.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Or just stand here and you
get all these wonderful pieces
of information.
And then you go away
and research it,
because I can't just
write about that
and say, hey, I just
sat here and you know,
I've downloaded the information.
And it appeals to
a certain audience,
and it really is true,
but to do what I do,
I want to back that up
with some hard facts.
And yes, I could stand
in the middle of, say,
Sacsayhuamán in Peru--
and I have done it, where I'm
talking to a group of people.
And there's a video
of me that shows
me looking a bit
sort of struggling,
trying to talk to my group.
That's because at the
moment I'm hearing something
in my left ear and the
temple is telling me,
you want to look at this.
And I'm trying to remember--
I hope I remember this when
I start talking to them.
And what I'm saying
to these people
doesn't quite make sense.
I am having a real hard
time, and I haven't even
touched a drink yet.
And then I told them to go away.
And then I scribbled all the
information that I'm getting.
And then for the next
month, I'll research this
and the information
is all there.
You've just got to
figure out where
the information is hiding.
And it's absolutely true.
And it makes writing
so much easier
when you've got someone
else feeding you
all the information.
>>NOORY: Funny, when they
built these structures,
did they go through
anything special doing that?
>>SILVA: In terms of an
initiation, you mean?
>>NOORY: The physical
structure of the structures.
I mean, is there-- do
you find a similarity
in all these different
regions of the planet, where
they build these sacred temples
and structures, but they did it
with a special formula?
Was there a purpose?
>>SILVA: Oh, they
were definitely
borrowing from the same
formula, the same blueprint.
I mean, if you go to,
for example, Peru--
great example.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SILVA: Wonderful
megalithic structures
which no one can explain.
You move to, let's see, 3,000
miles across the Pacific.
Tiny little piece of land
called Easter Island.
If there wasn't a tidal flow
going under the Pacific,
you wouldn't even find it.
And you get off a boat, and
the same structures are there.
>>NOORY: There they are.
>>SILVA: Well, now we go to the
other islands of the Pacific,
places you never even heard of.
I've been reading accounts
from the 1800s of Europeans
that land there and
they'll land on the shore
and they'll go, wait a minute,
we just saw that in Peru.
And you keep going all
the way around the world
and there's the same blueprint.
Same big stones, same
fitting, same jigsaw patterns,
stones that were
brought from sometimes
as much as 400 miles away.
Same geometries, same
mathematic equations,
same alignment to the stars.
And again, they talk-- there's
the stories and the myths that
surround them.
People are a bit taller, they
are a bit more fair-skinned.
They call them the
shining people.
And suddenly you
realize, wait a minute,
this was a global thing
that was going on.
They are borrowing from exactly
the same blueprint, right down
to the point where the
stones are into logs,
using a certain sort of--
what I call them--
I-beam cuts, where if
you look at the stones,
they have these things that
have been cut into the stone
and metal has been poured
into them like an alloy, which
shouldn't have
existed back then,
and it literally holds
the stones together
and makes sure that they don't
move despite the earthquakes.
>>NOORY: Amazing technologies.
>>SILVA: And you'll find
them in Peru, and in Egypt,
and in Korea, and in China--
everywhere.
So yeah, I think
they were borrowing
from the same blueprint.
>>NOORY: It sounds like they
built things a little better
than they do today.
>>SILVA: Oh, god,
they've been trying
to build a chair that
doesn't wobble today.
It's impossible.
And yet--
>>NOORY: Or an
earthquake-proof building.
>>SILVA: Exactly and that's why
I like going to Cuzco a lot,
because you walk down
one particular street--
and in fact, I use
this as a blueprint
to show people on my tours.
You know, OK, let's
find out who built what.
OK.
Here we have big
stones at the bottom.
Yes, incredibly large stones.
One of them has 12 angles.
As if four wasn't
difficult enough, let's
put 12 in there to make it fun.
And then we will
round the corners off.
And then we'll make
them a little bit
concave as well, just for fun.
And then there's
another section on top
of that where the stones become
a little bit smaller, still
big, but very meticulous
like machine cuts.
Very technological.
Impressive.
Almost like there's a
time span between the two.
>>NOORY: Baffling.
>>SILVA: Something happened.
And then you go
to the next level
and I'll say, now, group,
what happened there?
Oh, that's terrible.
The stones are about--
well, they're manageable.
There's mortar now
that's involved.
And then you've got the stuff
that the Spanish put on top.
So when an earthquake
comes along,
the top section of
the stones fall apart.
The Inca stones fall apart.
And the stuff under it
is still exactly where
it was 11,000 years ago.
And it becomes a
blueprint of figuring out
how old the temple is.
So the bigger the rock,
the older it gets.
Isn't that weird?
That's how we get
to the Roman era.
It's all falling apart.
Oh, dear.
>>NOORY: Back in
2012, NASA started
doing some investigating
of the planet,
and they found some
magnetic portals.
>>SILVA: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: Here we are.
>> A favorite theme of science
fiction is the portal--
an extraordinary
opening in space or time
that connects travelers
to distant realms.
A good portal is a shortcut, a
guide, a door into the unknown.
If only they actually existed.
It turns out that they do--
sort of.
And a NASA-funded researcher
at the University of Iowa
has figured out
how to find them.
"We call them 'X-points,' or
electron diffusion regions,"
explains plasma physicist
Jack Scudder of the University
of Iowa.
"They're places where the
magnetic field of Earth
connects to the magnetic
field of the sun,
creating an uninterrupted
path leading
from our own planet to
the sun's atmosphere
93 million miles away."
Observations by NASA's
THEMIS spacecraft
and Europe's Cluster
probes suggest
that these magnetic portals
open and close dozens
of times each day.
They're typically located a few
tens of thousands of kilometers
from Earth, where
the geomagnetic field
meets the onrushing solar wind.
Most portals are
small and short-lived.
Others are yawning,
vast, and sustained.
Energetic particles can
flow through the openings,
heating Earth's
upper atmosphere,
sparking geomagnetic storms, and
igniting bright polar auroras.
NASA is planning
a mission called
MMS, short for Magnetospheric
Multiscale Mission,
due to launch in 2014
to study the phenomenon.
Bristling with energetic
particle detectors
and magnetic sensors, the
four spacecraft of MMS
will spread out in
Earth's magnetosphere
and surround the portals
to observe how they work.
Just one problem-- finding them.
Magnetic portals are invisible,
unstable, and elusive.
They open and close
without warning,
"and there are no signposts to
guide us in," notes Scudder.
Actually, there are signposts
and Scudder has found them.
Portals form via the process
of magnetic reconnection.
Mingling lines of magnetic
force from the sun and Earth
criss-cross and join
to create the openings.
X-points are where the
criss-cross takes place.
The sudden joining
of magnetic fields
can propel jets of charged
particles from the X-point,
creating an electron
diffusion region.
To learn how to
pinpoint these events
Scudder looked at data from a
space probe that orbited Earth
more than 10 years ago.
"In the late 1990s,
NASA's Polar spacecraft
spent years in Earth's
magnetosphere,"
explains Scudder, "and it
encountered many X-points
during its mission."
Because Polar carried sensors
similar to those of MMS,
Scudder decided to see how
an X-point looked to Polar.
"Using Polar data, we have
found five simple combinations
of magnetic field and energetic
particle measurements that
tell us when we've
come across an X-point
or an electron diffusion region.
A single spacecraft,
properly instrumented,
can make these measurements."
This means that a single member
of the MMS constellation,
using the diagnostics, can
find a portal and alert
other members of
the constellation.
Mission planners
long thought that MMS
might have to spend a year
or so learning to find
portals before it
could study them.
Scudder's work
shortcuts the process,
allowing MMS to get
to work without delay.
It's a shortcut worthy of the
best portals of fiction, only
this time the portals are real.
And with the new signposts,
we know how to find them.
>>NOORY: Well, that satellite
is up and doing its thing now,
isn't it, Freddy?
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
I nearly dropped my
pint of beer when
I read the PR report on this
that talked about portals.
And I thought, wait a minute.
I've heard about this
before because the Indians
wrote about this in 8000 BC.
>>NOORY: Without a satellite.
>>SILVA: Without a satellite.
I've actually described
them as the serpents that
move along the ground which
are mirrored in the sky, which
are the arrows of sorcerers.
And I thought, well, if you know
the symbology of how they write
it, it becomes very obvious
because the serpent was always
the energy of the earth,
electromagnetic energy, which
is mirrored in the sky.
So whatever happens
on the earth,
these portals and these
pathways of energy
are mirrored in the heavens.
The arrows of sorcerers
relates to the people
who work with this energy and
were able to manipulate it.
A sorcerer is someone who works
with the source, the source
of energy, and you can
direct it like an arrow
to where you want it to go.
And the locations where they
said that these events take
place are in the temples.
In fact, if you go to the Hopi
or the Persians or anywhere
around the world, they
talk about the temples
as being connected
to a reed of heaven.
And I believe that
they just found it.
>>NOORY: These people of
the indigenous time period,
where did they get the knowledge
that we're finding out today?
I mean, you just illustrated
that they knew things
that we are just finding
out with multimillion-dollar
satellites.
How in God's name did
they know it then?
>>SILVA: I think this-- it
goes back to the question,
did we inherit this from someone
who already had the technology
and kind of somehow
ended up here on Earth.
>>NOORY: Passed it down?
>>SILVA: That's one possibility.
And the Hopi, again, talk about
the star people quite a lot.
But then there's
another group of people
that also talk about how
these special human beings who
are, again, a bit
taller, fair-skinned,
sometimes with
blonde or red hair
and blue eyes and green
eyes, which appear everywhere
around the world in places
where they shouldn't be.
They said that they
had the ability
to communicate with
these sorts of things.
They understood nature.
They could manipulate
nature at will,
and they had the
ability to see and use
their God-given ability, like
a lot of psychics have today.
You can project your
aura, if you like,
and actually expand
your consciousness
to actually see the stuff
the satellites now do.
It's very, very cheap
way to doing it.
We called it "remote
viewing" now.
So I think that both
parts of the story
actually are equally as valid.
>>NOORY: How do you
think the civilizations
of the time, Freddy,
reacted to these structures?
It's a Saturday night.
What do they do?
Do they all just crowd in there?
And then if they
do, what happens?
>>SILVA: Well, they
used to go into--
they used to use their
temples for different reasons,
sometimes for just
initiation for having
an out-of-body experience.
They felt they had an induced
near-death experience.
>>NOORY: I mean, they
didn't have a television,
they didn't have radio.
>>SILVA: They didn't need it.
>>NOORY: They had this.
>>SILVA: This was so
much more interesting.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
And they basically
used it to-- well,
literally just to better
themselves, and to also figure
out how things work.
Because, I mean, we're
stuck in a physical body.
We're souls trapped in
this limited environment.
Then they reckoned, well,
there's got to be more to this
than meets the eye.
What else is out there?
And they're able to
just disappear, go
into another world, and
come back and apply it
in their daily lives.
Unfortunately, by the time
we get to about 11,000 BC,
we also have the
stories of people
who had to use this
information to such a degree,
they could manipulate
energy to such a degree,
that they began to use
it against themselves.
We talk about the Indian
Vedas, for example.
They talk about the
times of the gods
during the wars of the gods, and
how they had the Vimana craft
and they used to
attack each other.
They can get from A to B
in the blink of an eye--
these flying boats--
and attack each other.
And they basically
destroyed themselves.
Kind of about the same time that
a meteorite finished everybody
else off.
So I think there is
some truth to that.
I mean, if these people were
supposed to be so uncivilized,
how did they come up with
such wonderful fiction?
I don't think it's fiction.
I think these
accounts actually--
>>NOORY: These
are the real deal.
>>SILVA: --are
eyewitness accounts.
They're too beautiful.
They're too well-drawn out.
With, you know,
multiple personalities,
beautiful visions
and descriptions.
They're too well-designed.
Almost like an engineer
will describe something
to be the work of savages.
That's why I'm so uncomfortable
with the academic version
of what was happening
here in pre-history.
>>NOORY: Did they
annihilate each other?
>>SILVA: Oh, undoubtedly.
There were a lot of
problems going on.
The Indian articles
mention this a lot.
They basically got
to the point where
they could manipulate gravity,
they could bend nature at will,
and it gets to you.
You know?
Once you have that
kind of power--
kind of like being
in government--
>>NOORY: They
harnessed it, probably.
>>SILVA: --you begin
to actually have
a few problems where,
you know, my aircraft is
bigger than yours.
Oh no, it's not.
Boom.
>>NOORY: Now you
don't have aircraft.
>>SILVA: You don't
have your aircraft.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to go back to the
boat and I may have a submarine.
And they basically used
it against themselves.
And there are places around
the world which clearly
show the signs of what looked
like, for lack of a better
word, atomic warfare.
It's actually in
the geologic record
where are things done to
the rocks, a certain glaze
and a certain radioactivity
to rocks which, A, should not
be radioactive.
And the glaze, which can only
come from two places-- well,
three places--
volcanic activity.
And these places were
nowhere near volcanoes.
Or solar outbursts,
which Robert Schoch
has done quite convincingly.
>>NOORY: Possible.
>>SILVA: Quite possible.
And also the possibility
that there was also
atomic warfare
going on, which is
what the Indian Vedas
and all of their stories
talk about quite strongly.
>>NOORY: Which Robert
Oppenheimer used as a example
to build our atomic bomb.
>>SILVA: Strange irony.
>>NOORY: He knew that something
had happened that seemed like
some kind of atomic weapon--
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>NOORY: --way back when.
And I think that the
ancient people said,
nothing is linear in life.
It's all in circles.
It all goes round in circles.
We've been here before.
And it's kind of ironic that
we're now talking about this.
11,000 years ago, we'd be
having this same conversation
in the middle of a field
about the very same stuff,
and talking about people
that came before them.
Because, you know,
in 11,800, there's
also another big
meteorite strike
that hit the earth
that annihilated
another civilization.
It starts off the glacial
period called the Younger Dryas
that we now get to
hear so much about.
This sort of inter-glacial
period where civilization
had survived three
cataclysms and is now
on its final descent.
You know, what they called
the third and final submersion
of Atlantis and Mu, which,
by the way, Mu and Lemuria,
they still talk about in
South America up in the Andes.
They said, well, that's
what we came from.
They still openly talk
about it in school,
can you believe this?
Up in Lake Titicaca.
>>NOORY: Good point indeed.
Were these structures used
too for healing purposes?
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
There was a multifaceted
method to the temples.
One was for movement of energy,
one was for self-improvement.
The Egyptians left
a lot of records
about the buildings
themselves, the way
that the rooms were
shaped, that it
was designed to musical scales,
a certain geometric shapes.
And they also used alloys.
You often see the
pictures of the Egyptians
holding these beautiful
rods of power, right?
>>NOORY: Yes.
Exactly.
>>SILVA: Those are made
of a certain alloy,
and they're all tuned to
different musical notes.
>>NOORY: They're like antennas.
>>SILVA: They are-- exactly.
And what they used to do
is-- because back then,
healers were also musicians--
they used to look
at you, because they
had that wonderful intuitive
ability, because they
didn't have all this, you know,
television and all that stuff.
They were much
connected to nature.
They could feel things.
You'd walk into a room
and they'll say, George,
you've been traveling
way too much.
I think you're missing a
certain frequency on your body.
You're missing the note A.
Stand up there for a second.
And they'll go
into the cupboard,
pick up one of the
rods, and they'd
put it next to your
spine, which of course is
where all your electromagnetic
energy goes through.
And they would tap
that rod several times
like a musical note,
and it literally
would transform to your spine.
And you'd walk out of
there completely upright.
Next?
And that's how they did it.
A very simple and
a very effective--
>>NOORY: Nice tune-up.
>>SILVA: A nice
tune-up, literally.
And today we know
that sound healing
is one of the most beneficial
therapies out there.
The Germans figured
this out in the 1800s.
They figured that your
liver has a frequency,
your eyes has a frequency.
So if you're missing a certain
frequency in your body,
if you throw the
missing frequency back
into that location, you will
get it to regenerate itself.
The Sound Healers
Association would
be talking about this today,
and they have a very good track
record of helping people
out with resonance therapy.
>>NOORY: Freddy, you've
done a lot of work
in the area of mounds.
What are they, first of all?
>>SILVA: Ah.
I used to think,
like most people,
that people were buried there.
Because in Europe they
call them the tumuli--
tumulus.
80% of the ones that
have been dug up,
there's no one buried there.
Now here's the weirdest part.
They're all built, not just
with a dumping of earth,
like a molehill.
They're built in layers of
organic and inorganic material.
And we know today that when
you do that, what happens
is you create a
certain shielding area.
So when you have a mound
with an internal passage
and you measure the
frequency outside and inside,
the frequencies are
totally different.
It's like there's a rarified
event that takes place.
And what I began to realize
is that these things
are marking special locations
on the face of the earth,
as all temples are.
They're marking the
intersecting points--
the X-points-- on
the face of the earth
that we talked about earlier.
And I took a year
off, as one does,
to go and measure a mound.
And I'd go there with
a friend of mine.
I do a lot of dowsing.
And in case people don't
believe in dowsing,
oil companies actually
use dowsers today
to locate deposits of oil.
And I went there
with a friend of mine
who has a very
developed little machine
to figure out
background frequencies.
So just in case people wouldn't
believe me, they'd believe him.
So we chose this
mound in England
not far from Avebury
stone circle.
And every two weeks
I would go there--
we would go there--
and measure these
ripples of energy
that were literally being
generated by the mound.
And you mark them on the ground,
and you measure the distance
from the center of the mound.
Then you plot them
on a piece of paper.
And after a year
you actually were
able to put together
this time-lapse video
of the actual variations
of the ripples coming out
of the mound.
>>NOORY: Well, you've
done it for over a year.
So let's--
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: --look at this and
have you comment, Freddy,
on just what we're
looking at here.
Because it's truly remarkable.
>>SILVA: Yeah, you're
looking at the aerial footage
of one of the mounds
not far from Avebury.
So what you're seeing here now
are the ripples of energy that
are coming out of the mounds.
And every two weeks, they
change from positive,
which is the red circles,
and the negative polarity,
which is the blue circles.
>>NOORY: And how big is that?
>>SILVA: That mound
is a small one.
It's only about 120
feet in diameter.
And again, you can see
how every two weeks
the mound breathes in, it
breathes out, it breathes in.
And also it changes
relative to the position
of the earth's core,
how it rotates,
the position of the moon.
And everything seems
to influence it.
But as you can see, it
honestly is a living,
breathing organism.
Just like the Egyptians always
said that these temples,
regardless of where
you build them
with earth or with soil or with
stone, they are living beings.
I never understood
what they were talking
about until this moment.
Because now I realized I'm
now looking at a living,
breathing organism.
>>NOORY: It's
radiating, isn't it?
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
I love the stuff.
>>NOORY: In terms of height,
Freddy, how high is it?
>>SILVA: This one's
pretty worn down.
It tends to rain
a bit in England,
so this is only
now 15 feet high.
>>NOORY: 15, that's all?
>>SILVA: That's all now.
But if you go to the ones,
the original, the culture that
really created
these mounds, which
are in the Black Sea area,
culture called the Scythians.
And these mounds date
back to at least 8000 BC.
You could be
forgiven for thinking
that they are small mountains.
They are massive beyond belief.
And we're just beginning
to realize what they are.
The people of the
Ukraine and Russia
are beginning to suddenly
reveal this information
to the rest of the world.
And we're beginning to realize
that we've inherited these
unusual looking molehills.
But they are actually much more
than the sum of their parts.
There are places literally
that not only mark the X-points
in the face of the earth,
but when you walk into them--
and a lot of them have
chambers inside them--
usually just leave and
disappear and go somewhere else.
If you're just there by yourself
for an hour, you come back,
you're not the same
person when you went in.
Something really, really
happens to you and changes you.
>>NOORY: Near St.
Louis, on the other side
of the Mississippi in Illinois,
is the Cahokia Mounds.
>>SILVA: Yes, there is.
>>NOORY: And I went and saw
those and they're fascinating.
They look a little like
that, a little taller.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And I thought,
too, as you did initially,
that there are Native Americans
buried in there like crazy.
And they have found other
structures within the mounds,
but they seem to be
all over the place.
What's the significance of that?
>>SILVA: It was
a global culture.
Again, they're borrowing
from the same philosophy.
And the burials tend to play--
the few burials that take
place seem to be intrusive.
They have no correlation to
the age of the actual mound.
They could be as much as
4,000 years between the burial
and the building period.
And again, it goes back to
the way that they were built,
the layers of organic
and inorganic material.
There has to be a
purpose to that.
And again, they behave
like orgone accumulators.
Because that's what Wilhelm
Reich was doing in his work,
building these chambers--
that he used for healing,
by the way--
where there were
layers of steel wool
and organic wool, steel
wool, organic wool.
And that again attracts
a certain orgone energy,
the energy that
permeates the universe.
And when you're
inside these chambers,
something happens to you.
Well, that's what
was happening here.
It's exactly the same process.
Over time, because these things
are thousands of years old,
we go through the process
of change culturally.
So we go from a culture
where we're all inclusive.
Now it's exclusive.
We're going to war by
the time it's 1500 BC.
We've lost the plot as humanity.
But then we began to use
them as fortifications.
And then we began to use
them as burial sites.
It's like today, there
could be a building
that was once used as a
hospital, now used as a hotel.
That falls apart.
It's now used as a pub.
But the original one, the
original use was the hospital.
So the same thing
happened to the temples
as well, over such a
long period of time.
They would get used
and recycled depending
on the needs and the dictum
of the political era.
>>NOORY: These
structures and facilities
that are all over the planet
have these specific purposes,
as you have outlined for us.
But when you make
any building, you
have some kind of architectural
rendering before you start.
Who are the architects
for these things?
>>SILVA: They were
very interesting people
who had complete
understanding of the laws
of nature, to the point
where they would go
and source materials from
hundreds of miles away,
even though they were actually--
the materials-- available quite
right next to them.
They understood the manipulation
of space using geometry.
And again, it's like did
they inherit this material?
Were they borrowing
from books that were
written thousands of years ago?
Was it just downloaded
from the stars?
Again, all of those stories
keep coming up again and again
and again.
But they were
definitely in touch
with a recipe book
that told them
how to build things
in a very unusual way.
And when you connect
the right stones
with the right electromagnetic
energy at the right location
in the face of the
earth, you create
structures which are
different from a normal house.
>>NOORY: It's
almost like putting
a plug into an electric socket.
>>SILVA: Oh, totally.
>>NOORY: Once you connect
it, the electricity flows.
It seems like the
same kind of thing.
>>SILVA: It's the same thing.
And whenever you're
approaching one of these sites,
and I'll use the pyramids
as a great example--
and it's not just
because they're big.
It's because-- and even in
Dahshur, which few people get
to go to, you can
just get off the bus
and you're hit with this wall.
>>NOORY: You feel
it immediately.
>>SILVA: I mean, you feel it.
Even the hardest skeptic
can't be but blown away.
Some of my favorite places are
some of the smallest places
on Earth.
For example, the
smallest pyramid
on the Egyptian plateau, which
no one gives any attention to,
because I want to
see the big thing--
the smallest pyramid is
the most important one.
And that's where you get some
really interesting work done.
And I've seen the face
of Zahi Hawass, you know,
hardened academic.
And you'd just say to him--
>>NOORY: In his day.
>>SILVA: In his day.
And you'd say, Zahi,
the small pyramid.
Oh, my friend.
A different person comes in.
You know something has
happened to him in there.
And I totally agree with him.
Same thing happens to me.
The big pyramid is
very interesting.
I've had my share of
experiences in there.
But the little things, the ones
that people don't pay attention
to, and that's what
you want to look at.
And you do feel this
sort of field around you.
You're in the presence
of this living being,
just like I showed with
the dowsing of the mound.
You're in the presence of this
space that actually begins
to change your environment.
So it prepares you
as a human being,
as an electromagnetic
human being--
because that's what we are--
it begins to alter who
you are in order for you
to have an experience
in the temple.
And in fact, DNA, being very
subjective to fluctuations
in the local magnetic
field, it only
takes one small
alteration of the local--
of the electromagnetic
frequency that you're
interacting with for DNA
to say, wait a minute.
I'm being given different
information here.
And that's exactly
what's happening.
So when you go into the
temple, the frequencies
that have been measured
are slightly different.
It makes you feel that you
are feeling a little different
because you are.
You're in a very
rarefied environment.
And if you'd just pay attention,
if you just give yourself
a little bit of time, just step
back from your mental clutter,
just sit in there
for little bit,
when you walk out you're
a different person.
And you know you're
a different person
because you've been altered.
That's why we use the
word "altar" in temples.
You are there to be altered.
>>NOORY: If you had to count
how many structures there were
all around the planet,
from the pyramids
to Stonehenge, how many
are we talking about?
>>SILVA: Tens of thousands.
And that's just the
stuff that survived.
>>NOORY: Really?
That much?
>>SILVA: Oh the more you go
away from Europe and the known
worlds--
and I'm focusing on the
Pacific at the moment
for a new project--
I was astonished to
find how much stuff
is in islands you'll never
hear about in the Pacific.
Platforms, pyramids,
again, things
that we thought were
natural mountains,
turns out that they're
actually man-made.
There's one in Indonesia,
which has now been dated--
carbon dated--
26,000 BC.
You can tell that the guy,
the archaeologist that's
doing this work, there's a lot
of knives on his back right
now from the local
archaeologists that do not
want to accept that there
was people, Indonesia,
or clever people in Indonesia,
as far back beyond 1000 BC.
26,000 BC, that's now
the oldest site on Earth.
And I think that
part of the world
is going to be showing us
something very important
because--
>>NOORY: And there was
purpose behind these things.
>>SILVA: Total purpose.
Wherever you go
around the world,
they appear to be exactly where
they are for a certain reason.
If you just happen to pull
back with a bird's-eye view
of the earth--
and I remember a very funny
time when I was doing this.
I didn't realize that
Graham Hancock was
doing exactly the same thing
for an identical project,
and we talked about it and
had a good laugh about it.
And I said, you know,
I've been mapping out
these old sites on the earth.
If I was doing this
at a temple level,
I would also be mapping out
the temples geometrically
or mathematically around the
face of the earth, using Giza
as zero, and using longitudes
and using certain numbers
to do with the earth,
to line up the temples.
And they do.
If you actually used--
>>NOORY: Are you saying
they're connected?
>>SILVA: They're all connected.
>>NOORY: How did point
A know about point B?
>>SILVA: That's what
I would love to know,
because when you actually--
I mean, I looked at it from
the simple point of view of--
>>NOORY: They didn't
have cell phones.
Hey, what are you
building over there?
>>SILVA: They had
their cell phone.
They didn't need a cell phone.
You just went, oy,
are you there yet?
Absolutely.
Because they had the
ability to see at a distance
and hear at a
distance, because they
didn't have all the clutter.
And I've basically
just figured out
that everything is geometric.
All nature's geometric.
And the geometry of the
earth, the nature of geometry
is the pentagram.
Any living organism is
based on pentagonal values.
So the pentagram, 72
degrees is your base angle.
You divide the angles of
the pentagram as longitudes,
you hit exactly the major--
all the sides on Earth.
Graham was doing
exactly the same thing,
looking at it from the
processional angle--
>>NOORY: As you were.
>>SILVA: Doing it the hard
way, as he of course does.
And we came and
lined up and went,
we got exactly the same thing.
And we just said,
well, obviously it just
basically shows that we're on
the right track of inquiry.
But again, they had a big plan.
They could see from outside the
earth and map the whole thing.
>>NOORY: Are you in shock,
Freddy, over the fact
that this was happening
thousands of years ago?
>>SILVA: Nothing surprises
me anymore, George.
That's why I love what I do.
It's the more I just
get out of my own hair,
then just allowed them to speak.
And this is why I like talking
to people who are indigenous.
I want to know what
they have to say.
If they would claim
to be that stupid--
and I don't accept
that for one moment.
I think it's just Europeans in
the Victorian era going to--
>>NOORY: They're
jealous of that.
>>SILVA: --Native
Americans saying,
oh, we're so much more special.
Actually, no.
They're talking
about stuff from 20--
the aboriginal people talk about
stuff from 30,000 years ago.
And you have experts
from space say--
they talk about a meteorite
event of 1 million years ago.
And they go in the middle of
the Outback, and there it is.
>>NOORY: There it is,
and they knew about it.
>>SILVA: So there are
eyewitness accounts.
So the more I talk to the people
who experienced it locally,
the more I'm even less
surprised because, oh, the story
is so much more beautiful.
>>NOORY: We talked, Freddy,
about the healing properties
of these structures.
If there were a sole
purpose why they
had these built and constructed,
what would that purpose
be, in your opinion?
>>SILVA: The journey
of the soul as a sort
of a sign of perfection.
You've got to understand the
concept of reincarnation.
If you can just accept that
for a second without judgment,
they recognize that
the soul comes here
on many occasions-- millions
of times, billions of times,
beyond comprehension.
And the whole point was
to perfect yourself.
You come down here to the earth
to actually have an experience.
It's a short experience.
You leave, and you decide,
do I want to go back?
Because it hurts.
>>NOORY: It's our choice.
>>SILVA: It really hurts.
Or do I go on to Planet Beach
for a few million years?
Well, there was that cute girl.
I'm going to go back there.
And that's how it happens.
>>NOORY: She might not be
around when you get back.
>>SILVA: She might
not be around.
You just pray that she keeps
her side of the bargain.
Or a man, if that's
your thing, you know?
And I think that they recognize
that the whole point of Earth
is a way station, where you
come here to perfect yourself.
And after so many different
lifetimes you go, OK, I get it.
I'm going to go off and
go somewhere else now.
The Zoroastrians, who go
back to at least 10,000
BC, who-- and Zoroaster, by
the way, wasn't one person.
He was many people.
They said that he
was a blueprint
for the story of Jesus.
And in fact they said he was
the 13th and last incarnation
of the original
prophet Zoroaster
from 10,000 years ago.
I thought, what an
interesting story.
And I inquired about this
from my Persian friends.
And they said, yeah.
They recognize that this soul
keeps coming back and back,
trying to perfect himself.
And by the time
he becomes Jesus--
he's done it all.
He's seen it all.
And now he can be a
teacher to somebody else.
He doesn't need to come back.
Sorry if you waiting
for the second coming.
It's not going to
happen, according
to what the Zoroastrians say.
So I've found a lot
of credence in that.
It's like, you
know, it's like when
you travel around the world,
you go to places that you
are so familiar with, but you
haven't been there before.
How can you explain that unless
you have memory of the site?
>>NOORY: Our friend,
Erich von Daniken,
of course, "Chariots
of the Gods,"
seems to try to tie
in these structures
from all over the planet.
>> There are books on
the market, for example,
from a New Zealand pilot.
His name is Bruce Cathie.
And he has a world
grid, which these lines
go all over the
planet, including
in faraway Peru, Easter Island.
All these places
are linked together.
But this is not my research
which I can personally confirm,
because I did not
make this research.
But it's out in the books.
Bruce Cathie is his name.
He was an airline pilot
for Air New Zealand.
And his books are on the market.
And he says there is a bold
geometry, all linked together.
I know it for sure for Europe,
the so-called ley lines,
because he can prove it with
the same names, the same root
words, and you can prove
it definitely in Greece.
All you need is a compass, and
you have places linked together
in the same distances.
The reasons for the ley lines
and for this so-called holy
or sacred geometry are us.
The extraterrestrials ordered
our prehistoric ancestor,
make your temples on
that and that place,
because they knew that the
future generations, thousands
of years in the future, they
will measure their countries.
They will fly.
And then they will realize that
this geometrical pattern cannot
be coincidence.
So these made on purpose.
And now they come up
with the questions.
That's exactly what we have.
Extraterrestrials--
were they here?
Where is the proof?
Where is the time capsule?
Without the
geometrical pattern, we
would never ask the question.
That's why it has to
be done in the past.
>>SILVA: [LAUGHING]
>>NOORY: Well, he echoes
a lot of the things
you've been saying, Freddy.
>>SILVA: I know.
And they gave you the answer.
They're made on "porpoise,"
so it's done by a dolphin.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>SILVA: Yes.
>>NOORY: It's amazing work.
>>SILVA: It is.
And he's absolutely
right, I think.
And I think it was twofold.
I mean, one, they recognized
the whole of the universe
is based on geometry.
If you ever get lost on another
planet, you can talk geometry
and they'll understand
what you're talking about.
It's the lattice
of the universe.
And also they
recognize that if we'd
lost a plot in the
future years, as we're
doing right now, that if you
recognized it to people who
are curious, and they put these
things back together again,
they realize the
blueprint, they recognize
that yes, it's not by accident.
It's done very deliberate.
And who came up with it?
There had to be someone--
>>NOORY: There's a
master planner somewhere.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
So there had to be
someone else that
was here before from
somewhere else, which
means, oh, we're not alone.
There's a continuum.
>>NOORY: If you put the
planet flat on a map
and put every structure there,
and then connected them,
would you see a pattern?
>>SILVA: Yeah.
In fact, I was reading something
in one of the old Indian texts
about one of the gods who--
the three steps of Vishnu.
They had this god, walks
in three massive steps.
I'm thinking, wait a minute.
I'm looking at this
and I'm thinking,
did this god walk geometrically
to create things in triangles?
And out of-- on a hunch.
Again, you just
kind of go with it.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SILVA: And you
know, Google Earth,
which is a very addictive--
>>NOORY: That helps.
>>SILVA: --program,
very addictive.
And I figured, let me
look at things in India.
There are places here,
there are sacred mountains.
Some are more
sacred than others.
Three are associated
specifically with this god,
and there's a story that
connects only those three.
And I thought, I'll put
a pin there, pin there,
and pin there.
And you connect the
dots, pull it back,
and you go, my god, it's a
perfect right-angle triangle.
1,800 miles.
How did they figure that out?
But then of course,
scientifically
you've got to keep doing it.
Let's see what happens in Japan.
The three most sacred
mountains, all reeds of heaven,
perfect right-angle either.
And I'm talking about a
90-degree angle measured
on the ground, because
obviously when you bring it up,
the lines get
curved, in case there
are any skeptics watching.
And then I began to look at
places in the Native American
Southwest, all linked by
age, and stories, and myths,
because you can't just
make this stuff up.
There has to be a
connection of some point.
It happened there.
It happened in
the British Isles.
It's happening all
around the world-- always
perfect triangles.
And I began to wonder,
well, why the triangle?
Well the triangles are
basically a flattened version
of the tetrahedron.
The tetrahedron is
essentially the-- well,
it's the glue of life.
>>NOORY: It is.
>>SILVA: Every
single molecule that
happens in the universe
is glued together
by a tetrahedronal lattice.
So they basically just flatten
that on the face of the earth.
And the idea was to
invoke the energy that
comes from that creative process
and to put it and link it
to these temples.
So there was-- again, they're
thinking on a big scale,
but they're also thinking
on a minute scale.
They're trying to basically
draw the idea of the heavens
onto the face of the earth and
bestow onto those locations
the properties that
come with that energy.
And when you walk in there,
you take on those properties
to perfect yourself and
ironically connect back
to the heavens as well.
So it's a big circular process
that they were working with.
>>NOORY: Freddy,
for the people who
don't have the benefit of
visiting these structures,
what are they missing?
>>SILVA: Well, are they
missing my glorious words
and my presence at these sites?
I think you're missing
something very profound.
It's an opportunity to
get out of your own ego,
out of your own
head, and literally
find out that you're a god.
And there are places on Earth
where there are inscriptions
that say, this temple was built
to transform you into a god,
into a bright star.
And they're absolutely
right because people
that go into these sites, you
go there for a day or a week,
when you come back you're
not the same person.
Something has
changed within you.
And I notice people
that have come
on my tours that are
just-- incredibly,
they still talk to
me 10 years later.
And I say, what's happened
to you since we last met?
And they said, you know what?
That trip changed my life.
I have done this,
this, and this,
and I'm now a much
better person for it.
And they've gone
through hell as well.
They've had to completely
disembody themselves, recreate
themselves from scratch.
And I see them doing
extraordinary things--
becoming extraordinary writers,
healers, researchers, even
prominent politicians,
by the way.
It happens in all
levels of life.
And architects as well,
encoding sacred geometry
into their structures.
People don't want to leave the
buildings that they create.
So yes, there is a
change that happens
to you on a physiological
and spiritual level
at these buildings.
And I wouldn't trade
that for anything else.
>>NOORY: We talk a lot
about the power grid
and how it's connected and what
could happen if it goes down.
What about this grid?
The world grid that
is strategically
laid out all over the planet?
>>SILVA: That's something I'm
beginning to just discover.
There's-- because if
you think about this,
if they were talking about
rebuilding the former world
of the gods and setting up the
mounds of strategic locations--
the earth had been hit,
the core had swung around,
the axis had tilted,
things had shifted.
Because these energy lines
behave like serpents.
They move.
They disappear.
You have to anchor them.
And by the time we
start doing the work
and recognizing that the temples
are anchoring the energy lines
and the temples are aligned
to geometric and mathematical
proportions.
And I'm thinking,
are they trying
to buy us time to a
point that civilization
evolves to such a degree--
as we are today--
that we will hit a
moment of a fracture?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SILVA: Because we are
hitting that moment.
There's no doubt about it.
I mean, NASA's obsessed with
asteroids all of a sudden.
>>NOORY: As they should be.
>>SILVA: As they should be.
And the calendars
have come to a close.
The Fourth World has now hit a--
we're now heading
into the Fifth World.
Everything is coming to a head.
And we're beginning
to realize we've
been living on borrowed time.
And I'm watching all
of these temples--
pyramids, simple stone
circles that were built,
what, to look at the
sun and the moon?
You and I can do
that with sticks.
>>NOORY: No, no, no.
>>SILVA: You know the one.
They are commemorating
long periods of time.
They are looking at
the sky obsessively.
Why?
And making things
and building things
so that they would
last into our lifetime.
I think that they were
anchoring the energy grid
so that the earth basically is
stabilized to a certain degree
within a certain period of
time, to give us enough time
to figure out, hey, we're
going to be learning
this big lesson
over 12,000 years
and then it's all going
to come to a complete end.
We're going to rebuild
and start again.
And I think that's
what's happening.
I think the build is
to give us some time
to actually work on ourselves.
And like everything
in the universe,
it has a beginning and an end,
and it has a beginning again.
It's just a theory
I'm working on.
But the more I travel, the
more I look at these spaces,
the more I look at the
evidence, the more I
begin to realize that, yes,
there is some truth to this.
That they are literally
anchoring the Earth grid
in order to get you to realize
the big potential within you,
within society, and eventually
to also recognize that there's
a continuum to all of this.
>>NOORY: What
fascinates you the most
about all these structures?
If there's a single one
thing, what would that be?
>>SILVA: How old
this stuff really is.
>>NOORY: Older than we think.
>>SILVA: Older than
is humanly imaginable.
And also, the--
I think it's the--
I have to say, it's the love
that they have for humanity.
For the ability to put
a mirror in front of us,
for us to recognize
we can do so much more
than we've been led to believe.
Most people live
in a world of fear.
It's such a limiting thing.
Once you get out of that and
recognize that, you know,
when you die, you go off and--
like Obi-Wan Kenobi said,
if you strike me down, Vader,
you become more powerful than--
I'll become more powerful
than you can possibly imagine.
It was a great line
because it's true.
Death is not the only thing.
The Templars knew
about this when
they were being burnt alive and
they went there smiling, going,
a little moment of pain
is nothing in eternity.
And I think it was
to do with the fact
that they loved humanity
enough to tell other people who
were not quite as
aware as they were,
that, yes, you can be a
god in your own lifetime.
If you'd just get
out of your own way,
go to these special
self-help centers,
and recognize for one moment--
or a week-- that you are
much bigger than you are.
You are very powerful people.
And if you just apply your
intent and your purpose,
and you are focused
about it, like
any yogi would tell
you that you can
achieve extraordinary
things in your lifetime.
It really comes down
to that, I think,
and that's what
makes it so special.
>>NOORY: Are the formations
of the structures
tantamount to doing all these
other unbelievable things?
The fact that they would
put them where they are,
shape them the way
they shape them--
how important is that?
>>SILVA: Oh, totally important.
Nothing was about decoration.
>>NOORY: And there
was no guesswork here.
>>SILVA: No guesswork at all.
I look at some of
the temple cut out
of the living rock
by the Jain, which
are a very mysterious culture
in the Indian subcontinent.
And you go into the side
of a mountain, something
made of granite, not exactly
an easy rock to carve--
>>NOORY: No, it's not.
Not with those tools.
>>SILVA: And you go in--
it's little stag heads.
And you go in and they've carved
everything in minuscule detail.
There is not an error anywhere.
How do they do it?
It's incredible.
Everything is where it should
be because of geometry,
of mathematics, of--
and then the Russians
figured this out, by the way,
that when you go into
these environments,
the geometry actually
does something
to you, because each
temple is different.
And they recognize,
well, wait a minute.
What happens if it's true?
They talk about changes of
consciousness and healing.
What happens if you
put a person that's
sick in the room shaped
like a pentagram?
And they found that
actually people
heal better when
they're in the shape
of a room like a pentagram.
And they stretched
that old information
and they built
hospitals like that.
And it really came down to
that, that the ancient people
were basically
hard-wiring everything.
They would use beauty as a bait.
But when you go in there and
you start getting curious,
and you go, what's that?
And you're sucked in.
That's how they did it.
The beauty was just a little
fishing line to get you in.
And once you were in
there, you can't let go.
>>NOORY: What is
your very favorite?
One place.
>>SILVA: Oh, that's hard.
>>NOORY: I know.
They're probably
all great for you.
But you've got to pick one.
>>SILVA: But you know what?
It depends on what you're
looking at at the time
and where you are as
a being at the time.
So it changes.
Right now I'm kind of obsessed
with northern Scotland.
One of my favorite parts of
the world, like so many others.
I've just come back
from Orkney Islands,
in the-- halfway
to the North Pole.
And I've seen stuff there
which is out of this world.
And again--
>>NOORY: Mind-boggling?
>>SILVA: Mind-boggling because
the stones are 20 feet tall.
They're about this thin.
It's incredible.
And they're standing on
the center of gravity,
literally cut out of a
little slot on the bedrock.
And it's windy up there.
>>NOORY: How far deep are they?
>>SILVA: They're
not that far deep.
There's only this much of
Earth, and then there's
a little slot into
which they go into.
>>NOORY: That's it?
How come they haven't
blown over or something?
>>SILVA: That's what
I'd love to know,
because they literally found the
center of gravity of the stone,
and they're standing there
taking 60 mile-an-hour wind.
And if you just rest
your ear, they're going--
they're humming.
[WHOOSHES] They're just moving
ever so slightly, humming.
All of them together create this
wonderful, sinuous resonance
about them.
I could not leave.
I mean, the plane was
leaving and I'm going out
to get in the car
back to my plane
and I'm not going to enjoy this.
And it's hard to leave.
And when you left, you're
not the same person again.
And I'm discovering
things about those things
just by listening to the sites.
What are they trying to tell me?
What are they trying to say?
>>NOORY: What's the message?
>>SILVA: And then a
month later, scribbling,
scribbling-- oh, that
makes a lot of sense.
So that's my favorite
place at the moment.
But it will change next week
when I'm at a different level
and I'm needing a different
piece of information.
I'll go to Peru and there'll
be something there waiting
for me as well.
So that's-- and I'm
following that trail.
That's what I like
about the work I do.
I follow the trail
of breadcrumbs.
I don't I don't have an agenda.
I'm just being led, and that's
what makes it fun and curious.
>>NOORY: Freddy, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>SILVA: My pleasure.
I hope there's a drinks
cabinet here next time.
I keep asking for one.
>>NOORY: Oh, I have mine.
>>SILVA: Hey.
>>NOORY: Folks, you may
not have an opportunity
to travel to all these
incredible structures.
But with programs like
ours, "Beyond Belief,"
we'll take you there.
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]